Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you a romantic drama and
mystery film from 2017, titled 2:22.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
The movie opens on a dream sequence happening
on Grand Central Station in New York with
a man walking into the station and another
walking up to a woman with a gun.
Another man draws his own gun and tells the
first one to stop, then he turns and they
stand off.
The clock in the station shows the time at
2:22 with gunshots and screams in the background.
Dylan wakes up from the dream and goes through
his morning routine, listening to the news
about a rare cosmic event.
He drinks his coffee, takes a shower, and
after leaves for work on his bike driving
recklessly on the street.
A truck almost hits him, he sees an ambulance,
then two women talking and some construction
work until he reaches Grand Central.
He takes the train to the airport where he
works as an air traffic controller.
Dylan thinks of his job as finding order in
the chaos and is quite good at it.
That night, he has drinks with his co-workers
and one of them gives him tickets for the
aerial ballet.
Over the next few days, he wakes up and follows
his daily routine, thinking that routines
present some kind of pattern, which he is
obsessed with.
One day, we see him at his job at the traffic
control room with the hour coming close to
2:22.
Sarah is in one of the planes that are about
to land which Dylan is in charge of.
The plane engages its wheels to prepare for
landing while another plane on the tracks
gets cleared for take-off.
When the clock reaches 2:22 the landing plane
experiences something strange and Dylan notices
a strange pattern on his monitor.
It looks as if time has stopped for him at
that hour and he has a vision of his dream
of the station.
Because he zoned out, a problem with the two
planes occurs and a possible collision between
them is becoming eminent.
Dylan sees the solution for the problem and
directs both of the planes on what they should
do, to the dismay of his coworkers.
The planes pass dangerously close to each
other as one of them takes off and the other
one lands.
Dylan gets suspended for four weeks pending
a full board review.
The next day, Dylan goes through Grand Central
Station to get to the ballet.
Suddenly, the windows in the station shatter,
making him pause and look at the clock, stuck
on 2:22.
He arrives at the theater and takes his seat
when a woman walking in the performance hall
catches his eye.
Dylan looks at Sarah during the aerial ballet,
seeing how much she enjoys it.
At one point their glances meet.
Later, he sees Sarah in the theater bar and
he approaches her, realizing that she's crying.
He gives her a tissue and tries to comfort
her, sitting down on her table and making
conversation.
Dylan asks her if she wants a drink and Sarah
says that she does, but not there.
They go on a date in a bar and he tells her
that his dad was a pilot.
They have dinner later and when Sarah asks
why he didn't follow in his father's footsteps,
Dylan answers that he is terribly afraid of
flying.
She tells him that she works in an art gallery,
but that she really wanted to be a dancer.
Their date continues long in the night and
Dylan shares what happened a few days ago
at work when he nearly killed 900 people.
Sarah realizes that it was her flight and
when Dylan apologizes for almost killing her,
she says that actually, he saved her.
They leave the restaurant and both say that
they feel like they've known each other forever.
The next day, Sarah is at work at the gallery
when she is joined by her ex-boyfriend Jonas,
one of the artists that will have a show there
soon.
He asks Sarah, whom he clearly still has feelings
for, how she liked the ballet the day before
and misses the fact that she actually isn't
talking about ballet at all when she answers
him.
Jonas even tells her that she's glowing.
Meanwhile, Dylan gets a phone call informing
him that he'd left his wallet at the train
the other day when he hears and sees an accident
happening in front of his building.
Dylan gets his wallet from the station and
sees the following things there: a businessman
reading a paper, a couple embracing, school
kids and their teacher, and a pregnant woman
waiting for someone.
The lights begin flickering and when the clock
reaches 2:22, sparks start coming out of it.
Later, Dylan goes to visit Sarah's gallery
and stuns her by showing up there, then he
asks her to go to dinner with him.
Sarah laughs because it's a bit early in the
day for that so they have coffee together
in the park instead.
She finally tells him why she's not a ballet
dancer.
It was because she had an injury very early
in her blossoming ballet career and couldn't
perform anymore.
Dylan cheers her up by playing music on his
phone and asking her out for a dance in the
park.
They dance together and later get back to
her place and sleep together.
The next morning, they're lying in bed and
she tells him when her birthday is, which
surprises him because it's his birthday as
well.
Suddenly, he hears a car crash outside and
checks his watch to see if it happened at
the same time as the other.
Later, Sarah talks to Jonas at work and when
he finds out that she's seeing someone, he
pretends to be happy for her.
Dylan is in a cab, going someplace, when he
begins to notice the same things he does when
he goes to work, only done by other people
in different parts of the city.
He freaks out and argues with the cabbie to
take another route when they have a massive
collision with a truck.
Dylan gets rescued out of the cab by some
onlookers, but then stumbles away from the
scene with just a small injury on his head.
He goes to Grand Central Station and gets
to Sarah's immediately telling her about the
things that he repeatedly sees there.
Dylan tells her about the businessman, the
couple, the school kids, and a pregnant woman
under the clock.
When it strikes 2:22 things begin to explode
on the station.
Sarah comforts him and maybe she thinks he
has a concussion?
Later, Dylan gets back home and water drips
on his hand.
He thinks that everything that he sees and
hears is part of some giant pattern that he
needs to figure out so he starts writing down
all the things he remembers on some parchment
paper.
Dylan leaves his house again, paying close
attention to all the things on his way, and
writes them down on the parchment paper.
He gets to work and tells his co-worker that
he feels like he's losing his mind, then says
that things are happening to him that can't
possibly be explained.
Dylan's co-worker doesn't know how to help
him but tells him that they should do something
for his birthday that's in three days.
Later, Dylan can be seen getting overwhelmed
by all of the things he hears and thinks might
be part of the pattern so he goes back to
his apartment and writes them down in a new
place where he can see them more easily.
He makes an enormous list that includes everything
that he keeps seeing in the station as well,
then wonders if everything will end in a climactic
way.
It's the night of Jonas's show opening which
is called convergence.
Dylan arrives at the gallery and before Sarah
can approach him, she's swiftly taken away
by Jonas to watch his artistic display.
Everyone crowds in another room in the gallery
and Sarah introduces Dylan to Jonas.
His artwork is a light installation that captures
Grand Central Station.
The audience is transported inside the station
with all of its parts appearing slowly.
Suddenly, Dylan notices that Jonas has included
the clock in his exhibit, stuck on 2:22.
Other elements of Dylan's pattern emerge within
the work, such as the businessman and the
pregnant woman that looks like Sarah.
The clock turns back time and the work changes
when Jonas approaches Dylan and he asks him
if the piece is some sort of joke and if he's
been following him, thinking that all of it
is connected to his pattern.
Jonas has no idea what is going on and they
begin to struggle.
Sarah and the gallery manager pull them off
each other, then another curator begins clapping
because he thinks it's all part of the show.
He congratulates Jonas for recreating a famous
murder scene that happened on the station
years earlier.
But neither Jonas nor anyone else understands
what he means.
The curator tells the audience that he has
another interpretation of the murder in his
own gallery.
Sarah drags Dylan away, upset with him, telling
him to let himself out.
He leaves and sends her an apology text, then
gest back to the gallery and sees her talking
to Jonas, getting a little jealous.
The next day, he exercises furiously while
listening to the news reporting on the cosmic
phenomenon that will be at its peak in the
following two days.
Dylan breaks his exercise equipment and when
he tries to fix it, he sees a parcel hidden
in the beam of his celling.
He opens the parcel to find a passport with
the name Jake Redmond and some letters addressed
to the same person.
The letters are love letters.
Meanwhile, he tries to reach Sarah and when
he can't he goes to see the other exhibit
of the murder scene.
Dylan looks over the images in the interpretation
and the curator joins him.
He tells him the story of what happened as
they look at the image of the killer.
The killer gunned down a pregnant woman and
a cop before he was himself gunned down by
the cops.
Lastly, he shows him a photograph of the original
crime scene in Grand Central Station.
Dylan sees the name Jake Redmond under the
photograph.
When he comes back home, he does some research
on the station and finds an article about
the murder.
The woman was murdered in a jealous rage by
her lover.
Dylan checks Jake's passport and sees that
he was born on the same date as him exactly
30 years earlier.
He notices the return address on the letters
and decides to check out the place to find
out more information about the woman.
Her sister lives in her place now and when
she sees the letters, she asks Dylan why he
came to see her.
Dylan says that he doesn't know exactly, he
simply feels a connection to her sister.
The woman tells him all about her sister Evelyn
Mills, who was a prolific singer and a kind
person.
She met Jake during one of her performances.
Evelyn fell for him deeply and didn't give
up on him when she found out that he was a
career criminal.
Everyone tried to warn her, including Noah
Marks, who was the detective that died in
the station.
Evelyn's sister tells Dylan that he was probably
in love with her too because she had that
effect on men.
Dylan asks what she was doing at Grand Central
Station.
Her sister tells him that Detective Marks
came in one day and told Evelyn things about
Jake she didn't know, like how he was a very
violent man.
So the detective wanted to hide Evelyn in
his place in Millhurst and that's how they
got there.
She hands Dylan Jake's letters to her.
When he gets back home, Dylan tries to figure
out the pattern and sees a correlation between
the placement of the airplanes the day Sarah
landed and the placement of the bodies in
Grand Central Station after the murder.
He writes Sarah about the connection he's
found and begs her to call him.
Meanwhile, Sarah enters the light installation
and Jonas joins her there.
She tells him about Dylan, then asks Jonas
why he wanted to make it about Grand Central
Station.
Jonas tells her that he had the idea much
earlier before he even met her.
Sarah says that Dylan sees the same type of
people in the station that Jonas has in his
installation and that he thinks it's a pattern.
Jonas thinks that people that see patterns
in everything aren't exactly sane.
Dylan gets to the station to get a ticket
to Millhurst, but the ticket seller tells
him that the line has been closed for 30 years.
He turns around to see the board change in
the correct line and the clock strikes 2:22
so the chandelier in the station falls down
and shatters.
Dylan now resolves into filming everything
that he sees on his way home while checking
the time.
That night, he's back home working on the
pattern problem, when Sarah comes over to
see him.
He apologizes to her and she asks him if he's
ok, thinking that there is something else
going on with him.
In the meantime, Jonas is working on his installation,
making the pregnant woman look like Sarah.
Back at Dylan's, she sees his lists and confronts
him about them.
Dylan explains his Evelyn and Jake discovery,
but Sarah is worried that he might be losing
his marbles.
He says that the incident happened exactly
30 years before their birthday which is the
next day.
Dylan tells her that they are them and shows
her the letters explaining that those were
actually written by them a lifetime ago.
Sarah can't listen to his "theories" anymore,
so she tells him that none of what he's saying
means anything, that all of the things he's
been seeing and hearing are just random big
city stuff that happens every day.
Dylan thinks that she doesn't understand,
but she demonstrates it to him by opening
the window and linking the noises.
Sarah tells him that she feels all kinds of
special about him, but Dylan just says that
the woman she's supposed to be - dies because
the man he's supposed to be - kills her.
His solution is that they can never see each
other again and kicks her out of his place.
Dylan gets extra upset and breaks the glass
with his list of patterns.
Later, Sarah arrives at Jonas's place and
asks him about Grand Central again, telling
him about the connection Dylan sees between
everything.
Jonas, however, thinks that it's all a coincidence
and says that Dylan needs a shrink.
He tells Sarah that what she's doing has to
stop.
Then, says that he wants to take her away
for a few days because, judging by the way
Dylan was looking at him, he thinks he wanted
to kill him.
Jonas thinks that Dylan is out of control
and that she's not safe, but Sarah tells him
that she loves Dylan very much.
He's afraid that he might do something to
hurt Sarah and is considering killing himself
when he looks at the sky and makes another
connection with the constellations.
The next day is their birthday.
Dylan continues to think about the patterns
as a news report about the cosmic phenomenon
is plays out on the TV.
Suddenly, Dylan has a massive realization
about the pattern and finds the only things
in it that are actually connected.
The news reporter saying that the phenomenon
they are now seeing actually happened 30 years
ago and Dylan begins connecting everything
to the moment that he dies.
Simultaneously, Sarah gets in a cab with Jonas
that will take them to the airport.
Jonas tells her that a couple of days in Millhurst
will do her wonders.
Dylan leaves his place and follows the patterns,
leading him to Jonas's apartment.
He slams at the door, but when no one answers
he finds a way to break the lock.
Inside he finds giant photos of Sarah, as
well as an entire wall of smaller ones and
a notebook with sketches from the station.
Dylan also finds an empty pistol case and
realizes Jonas is Noah Marks.
He calls Sarah, but Jonas asks her not to
answer when he gets a text that their flight
has been canceled.
Jonas diverts the cab to Grand Central Station,
to Sarah's horror.
Dylan runs toward the station, having realized
that it will still all go down as he thought
it would.
Jonas and Sarah arrive there and he goes to
get the tickets.
Sarah sees the clock and follows it, then
listens to Dylan's message that he knows what
the patterns are and that he's been seeing
the day that they die.
Jonas gets the same information from the seller
as Dylan and gets tickets to another place
close by.
Dylan has an incident with the police and
he grabs one of their guns, but instead of
putting the gun down he slides it and jumps
through a window to get to the station.
Jonas gets to Sarah with the tickets, but
she doesn't want to have anything to do with
him anymore.
He doesn't want to let her go, calling her
Evelyn and saying that she must love him.
Sarah doesn't though which upsets him.
Suddenly, Dylan arrives and calls to her getting
Jonas angrier so he reaches for his gun.
Sarah sees what Dylan has been seeing - businessman,
couple, schoolchildren - and realizes that
in their version of events, she's the pregnant
woman standing under the clock.
Jonas points his gun at Dylan, freaking everybody
out and saying that she'll never be his as
he points the gun at Sarah.
Dylan runs to her and jumps in front of Sarah
as Jonas shoots.
The clock is close to 2:22 and he knows that
the cops are coming, so he turns to face Jonas.
The original version of the situation is revealed,
in which Jake is the one protecting Evelyn
like Dylan is protecting Sarah now.
Before Jonas can fire another shot, the clock
strikes 2:22 and the cops gun him down.
Dylan drops to the ground and the entire story
plays out.
Jake was never the murderer but was framed
by the cops to protect their own.
And in the end, only love can reveal the truth.
Dylan doesn't die when the clock changes to
2:23.
In the last image of the film, Sarah is revealed
standing next to their baby looking out of
their apartment to Dylan who has become a
commercial airline pilot.
He looks at his watch, happy that the patterns
aren't there anymore.